README.adoc, before:

= AsciiISO: Asciidoctor processor for ISO standards

image:https://img.shields.io/gem/v/asciidoctor-iso.svg["Gem Version", link="https://rubygems.org/gems/asciidoctor-iso"]
image:https://img.shields.io/travis/riboseinc/asciidoctor-iso/master.svg["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/riboseinc/asciidoctor-iso"]
image:https://codeclimate.com/github/riboseinc/asciidoctor-iso/badges/gpa.svg["Code Climate", link="https://codeclimate.com/github/riboseinc/asciidoctor-iso"]

WARNING: This gem is still under development.

== Functionality

This gem processes http://asciidoctor.org/[Asciidoctor] documents following
a template for generating ISO International Standards. The following
outputs are generated.

* (Optional) An HTML preview generated directly from the Asciidoctor document,
using native Asciidocot formatting. 
** http://asciimath.org[AsciiMathML] is to be used for mathematical formatting.
The gem uses the https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciimath[Ruby AsciiMath parser],
which is syntactically stricter than the common MathJax processor;
if you do not get expected results, try bracketting terms your in AsciiMathML
expressions.
* an XML representation of the document, intended as a document model for ISO
International Standards. 
* The XML representation is processed in turn to generate the following outputs
as end deliverable ISO standard drafts.
** Microsoft Word output (`.doc`), following the style conventions of the 
https://www.iso.org/iso-templates.html[ISO Standard Microsoft Word template]. 
(In development)
** PDF (forthcoming)
** HTML (forthcoming)

This AsciiDoc syntax for writing ISO standards is hereby named "AsciiISO".

== Usage

[source,console]
----
$ asciidoctor a.adoc  # HTML output of Asciidoc file
$ asciidoctor -b iso -r 'asciidoctor-iso' a.adoc  # ISO XML output
----

The gem translates the document into ISO XML format, and then validates its
output against the ISO XML document model; errors are reported to console
against the XML, and are intended for users to check that they have provided
all necessary components of the document.

TODO: The gem will then convert the XML to Word Document, HTML, and PDF,
and output those files with the appropriate file suffixes.
`lib/asciidoctor/iso/iso2wordhtml.rb` is work in progress, and not yet
integrated into the executable.

=== Content Warnings

The gem also realises several format
checks as prescribed in ISO/IEC DIR 2, and warns the user about them in the
console:

* Numbers with what looks like dots instead of commas for decimal points.

* Groups of numbers without spacing for every three digits. (The gem attempts
to ignore ISO references.)

* No space before percent sign.

* No bracketing of tolerance in percentage (e.g. `15 ± 7 % .`)

* No recommendations, permissions or requirements (detected by keyword) in:
foreword, scope, introduction, term examples and examples, notes, footnotes.

* No subclauses that are the only child of a clause. (In clauses, annexes, or
scopes.)

* 5 levels of subclause nesting. (Never actuated, AsciiDoc only permits 4
levels of subsections.)

* Non-ISO/IEC reference turning up as normative.

* Term definition starts with an article, or ends with a period.

* Title intro or title part appears in only one of French or English.

== Approach
=== Document model

The document model ("ISO XML") intends to introduce rigour into the ISO
standards authoring process; the existing 
https://www.iso.org/iso-templates.html[Microsoft Word template from ISO]
do not support such rigour down to the element level.

The ISO International Standard format is prescribed in
http://www.iec.ch/members_experts/refdocs/iec/isoiecdir-2%7Bed7.0%7Den.pdf[ISO/IEC DIR 2 "Principles and rules for the structure and drafting of ISO and IEC documents"],
to a level amenable to an explicit document model. A formal document
model would allow checking for consistency in format and content, and expedite
authoring and quality control of ISO standards.

The document model ("ISO XML") is under development, but it already contains
all the markup needed to render the
https://www.iso.org/publication/PUB100407.html["Rice document"], the ISO's
model document of an international standard, and all the structures described
in ISO/IEC DIR 2. It is expressed as a
link:lib/asciidoctor/iso/validate.rnc[Relax NG Compact schema]; actual
validation occurs against its link:lib/asciidoctor/iso/validate.rng[full Relax
NG counterpart]. A UML representation of the document model is given below.
Note that the document model is currently still in the exploratory phase, and
will likely be changing significantly.

WARNING: The current RNG model of ISO XML is out of sync with the UML.

=== Asciidoctor

Asciidoctor has been selected as the authoring tool to generate the document
model representation of ISO standards. It is a document formatting tool like
Markdown and DocBook, which combines the relative ease of use of the former
(using relatively lightweight markup), and the rigour and expressively of the
latter (it has a well-defined syntax, and was in fact initially developed as a
DocBook document authoring tool). Asciidoctor has built-in capability to output
Text, DocBook and HTML; so it can be used to preview the file as it is being
authored.

Note that in order to generate HTML preview output close to what is intended
in the ISO standard, the Asciidoc
document includes a fair amount of formatting instructions (e.g. disabling
section numbering where appropriate, the titling of Appendixes as Annexes), as
well as ISO boilerplate text, and predefined section headers (sections are
recognised by fixed titles such as `Normative References`). Authoring ISO
standards in this fashion assumes that users will be populating an Asciidoc
template, and not removing needed formatting instructions.

=== Asciidoctor model additions

==== Paragraph alignment

Alignment is defined as an attribute for paragraphs:

[source,asciidoctor]
--
[align=left]
This paragraph is aligned left

[align=right]
This paragraph is aligned right

[align=center]
This paragraph is aligned center

[align=justified]
This paragraph is justified, which is the default
--

==== Dates on reviewer notes

Reviewer notes are encoded as sidebars. A date attribute (in ISO 8601 format)
and a reviewer attribute (naming the reviewer) 
are mandatory for reviewer notes; supplying the time as well as the date
is optional.

[source,asciidoctor]
--
[reviewer="Nick Nicholas",date=20180125T0121]
****
I do not agree with this statement.
****
--

==== Strikethrough and Small Caps

The following formatting macros are used for strikethrough and small caps text:

[source,asciidoctor]
--
[strike]#strike through text#
[smallcap]#small caps text#
--

==== Count of table header and footer rows

In Asciidoc, a table can have at most one header row or footer row. In ISO,
a nominal single header row is routinely broken up into multiple rows in order
to accommodate units or symbols, that line up against each other, though
they are displayed as merged cells with no grid between them. To address this,
tables can be marked up with an optional `headerrows` attribute:

[source,asciidoctor]
--
[headerrows=2]
|===
.2+|Defect 4+^| Maximum permissible mass fraction of defects in husked rice +
stem:[w_max]
| in husked rice | in milled rice (non-glutinous) | in husked parboiled rice | in milled parboiled rice

| Extraneous matter: organic footnote:[Organic extraneous matter includes foreign seeds, husks, bran, parts of straw, etc.] | 1,0 | 0,5 | 1,0 | 0,5
|===
--

=== Features not visible in HTML preview

The gem uses built-in Asciidoc formatting as much as possible, so that users
can retain the ability to preview documents; for _Terms and Definitions_
clauses, which have a good deal of explicit structure, macros have been
introduced for semantic markup (admitted terms, deprecated terms, etc). 

The default HTML output of an Asciidoc-formatted ISO document is quite close to the
intended final output, with the following exceptions, and with the additional
exceptions listed above as markup introduced for ISO markup. Note that the final
outputs of the conversion (Microsoft Word, PDF, HTML) do not have these exceptions,
and comply with the ISO Standard specifications.

* _Terms and Definitions_: each term is marked up as an unnumbered subclause,
the semantic markup of alternate and other terms is not rendered visually.

* _Formulas_: Asciidoctor has no provision for the automated numbering of
isolated block formulas ("stem"), and does not display the number assigned a
block formula in its default HTML processor—although it does provide automated
numbering of examples. Formula numbering is provided in the final outputs
of the conversion.

* _Missing elements_: The document model does not yet include Asciidoc elements
that do not appear to be relevant to ISO Standards; these will be ignored in
generating ISO XML. Those elements include:
** sidebars (`aside`) (as distinct from warnings),
** ASCII art/preformatted text (`literal`) (as distinct from sourcecode listings),
** page breaks (`thematic break`).

* _Markup_: Some connecting text which is used to convey markup structure is
left out: in particular, `DEPRECATED` and `SOURCE` (replaced by formatting
macros).

* _Tables_: Table footnotes are treated like all other footnotes: they are
rendered at the bottom of the document, rather than the bottom of the table,
and they are not numbered separately.

* _Cross-references_: Footnoted cross-references are indicated with the reference
text `fn` in isolation, or `fn:` as a prefix to the reference text. The default
HTML processor leaves these as is: if no reference text is given, only `fn`
will be displayed (though it will still hyperlink to the right reference).

* _References_: The convention for references is that ISO documents are cited
without brackets by ISO number, and optionally year, whether they are normative
or in the bibliography (e.g. `ISO 20483:2013`); while all other references are
cited by bracketed number in the bibliography (e.g. `[1]`). The default HTML
processor treats all references the same, and will bracket them (e.g. `[ISO
20483:2013]`). For the same reason, ISO references listed in the bibliography
will be listed under an ISO reference, rather than a bracketed number.

* _References_: References are rendered cited throughout, since they are
automated. For that reason, if reference is to be made to both an undated and a
dated version of an ISO reference, these need to be explicitly listed as
separate references. (This is not done in the Rice model document, which lists
ISO 6646, but under _Terms and Definitions_ cites the dated ISO 6646:2011.

* _References_: ISO references that are undated but published have their date
indicated under the ISO standards format in an explanatory footnote. Because of
constraints introduced by Asciidoctor, that explanation is instead given in
square brackets in Asciidoc format.

* _Annexes_: Subheadings cannot preserve subsection numbering, while also
appearing inline with their text (e.g. Rice document, Annex B.2): they appear
as headings in separate lines.

* _Annexes_: Cross-references to Annex subclauses are automatically prefixed
with `Clause` rather than `Annex` or nothing.

* _Metadata_: Document metadata such as document numbers, technical committees
and title wording are not rendered in the default HTML output.

* _Patent Notice_: Patent notices are treated and rendered as a subsection of
the introduction, with an explicit subheading.

* _Numbering_: The numbering of figures and tables is sequential in the default
HTML processor: it does not include the Clause or Annex number. This,
_Figure 1_, not _Figure A.1_.

* _Notes_: There is no automatic note numbering by the default HTML processor.

* _Review Notes_: The reviewer on the review note is not displayed.

* _Keys_: Keys to formulas and figures are expected to be marked up as
definition lists consistently, rather than as inline prose.

* _Figures_: Simple figures are marked up as images, figures containing
subfigures as examples. Numbering by the default HTML processor may be
inconsistent. Subfigures are automatically numbered as independent figures.

* _Markup_: The default HTML processor does not support CSS extensions such as
small caps or strike through, though these can be marked up as CSS classes
through custom macros in Asciidoctor: a custom CSS stylesheet will be needed to
render them.


== Document Attributes

The gem relies on Asciidoctor document attributes to provide necessary
metadata about the document. These include:

`:docnumber:`:: The ISO document number (mandatory)

`:tc-docnumber:`:: The document number assigned by the Technical committee

`:partnumber:`:: The ISO document part number

`:edition:`:: The document edition

`:revdate:`:: The date the document was last updated

`:copyright-year:`:: The year which will be claimed as when the copyright for
the document was issued

`:title-intro-en:`:: The introductory component of the English title of the
document

`:title-main-en:`:: The main component of the English title of the document
(mandatory). (The first line of the AsciiDoc document, which contains the title
introduced with `=`, is ignored)

`:title-part-en:`:: The English title of the document part

`:title-intro-fr:`:: The introductory component of the French title of the
document. (This document template presupposes authoring in English; a different
template will be needed for French, including French titles of document
components such as annexes.)

`:title-main-fr:`:: The main component of the French title of the document
(mandatory). 

`:title-part-fr:`:: The French title of the document part

`:doctype:`:: The document type (see
https://www.iso.org/deliverables-all.html[ISO deliverables: The different types of ISO publications]
) (mandatory). The permitted types are:
`international-standard, technical-specification, technical-report,
publicly-available-specification, international-workshop-agreement, guide`.

`:docstage:`:: The stage code for the document status (see
https://www.iso.org/stage-codes.html[International harmonized stage codes])

`:docsubstage:`:: The substage code for the document status (see
https://www.iso.org/stage-codes.html[International harmonized stage codes])

`:secretariat:`:: The national body acting as the secretariat for the document
in the deafting stage

`:technical-committee-number:`:: The number of the relevant ISO technical
committee

`:technical-committee:`:: The name of the relevant ISO technical committee
(mandatory)

`:subcommittee-number:`:: The number of the relevant ISO subcommittee

`:subcommittee:`:: The name of the relevant ISO subcommittee

`:workgroup-number:`:: The number of the relevant ISO workgroup

`:workgroup:`:: The name of the relevant ISO workgroup

`:language:` :: The language of the document (`en` or `fr`)  (mandatory)


The attribute `:draft:`, if present, includes review notes in the XML output;
these are otherwise suppressed.


== Data Models

=== Standard Document Model

image::models/standard-document.png[]

=== Bibliographic Models

image::models/bibliography.png[]

=== Terms and References Model

image::models/terms.png[]

=== Text Section Model

image::models/section.png[]

=== Text Block Model

image::models/blocks.png[]

=== Text Model

image::models/text.png[]



== Examples

The gem has been tested to date against the
https://www.iso.org/publication/PUB100407.html["Rice document"], the ISO's
model document of an international standard. This repository includes:

* the link:spec/examples/rice.adoc[AsciiISO version of the Rice document].
* the link:spec/examples/rice.html[AsciiISO rendering of the Rice document as an HTML preview] 
(native Asciidoc rendering)
* the link:spec/examples/rice.xml[ISO XML rendering of the Rice document].
* the link:spec/examples/rice.doc[Word .doc rendering of the Rice document] (Work in progress).

Commit message:

Remove model data and refer to isodoc-models repo

README.adoc, after:

= AsciiISO: Asciidoctor processor for ISO standards

image:https://img.shields.io/gem/v/asciidoctor-iso.svg["Gem Version", link="https://rubygems.org/gems/asciidoctor-iso"]
image:https://img.shields.io/travis/riboseinc/asciidoctor-iso/master.svg["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/riboseinc/asciidoctor-iso"]
image:https://codeclimate.com/github/riboseinc/asciidoctor-iso/badges/gpa.svg["Code Climate", link="https://codeclimate.com/github/riboseinc/asciidoctor-iso"]

WARNING: This gem is still under development.

== Functionality

This gem processes http://asciidoctor.org/[Asciidoctor] documents following
a template for generating ISO International Standards. The following
outputs are generated.

* (Optional) An HTML preview generated directly from the Asciidoctor document,
using native Asciidocot formatting. 
** http://asciimath.org[AsciiMathML] is to be used for mathematical formatting.
The gem uses the https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciimath[Ruby AsciiMath parser],
which is syntactically stricter than the common MathJax processor;
if you do not get expected results, try bracketting terms your in AsciiMathML
expressions.
* an XML representation of the document, intended as a document model for ISO
International Standards. 
* The XML representation is processed in turn to generate the following outputs
as end deliverable ISO standard drafts.
** Microsoft Word output (`.doc`), following the style conventions of the 
https://www.iso.org/iso-templates.html[ISO Standard Microsoft Word template]. 
(In development)
** PDF (forthcoming)
** HTML (forthcoming)

This AsciiDoc syntax for writing ISO standards is hereby named "AsciiISO".

== Usage

[source,console]
----
$ asciidoctor a.adoc  # HTML output of Asciidoc file
$ asciidoctor -b iso -r 'asciidoctor-iso' a.adoc  # ISO XML output
----

The gem translates the document into ISO XML format, and then validates its
output against the ISO XML document model; errors are reported to console
against the XML, and are intended for users to check that they have provided
all necessary components of the document.

TODO: The gem will then convert the XML to Word Document, HTML, and PDF,
and output those files with the appropriate file suffixes.
`lib/asciidoctor/iso/iso2wordhtml.rb` is work in progress, and not yet
integrated into the executable.

=== Content Warnings

The gem also realises several format
checks as prescribed in ISO/IEC DIR 2, and warns the user about them in the
console:

* Numbers with what looks like dots instead of commas for decimal points.

* Groups of numbers without spacing for every three digits. (The gem attempts
to ignore ISO references.)

* No space before percent sign.

* No bracketing of tolerance in percentage (e.g. `15 ± 7 % .`)

* No recommendations, permissions or requirements (detected by keyword) in:
foreword, scope, introduction, term examples and examples, notes, footnotes.

* No subclauses that are the only child of a clause. (In clauses, annexes, or
scopes.)

* 5 levels of subclause nesting. (Never actuated, AsciiDoc only permits 4
levels of subsections.)

* Non-ISO/IEC reference turning up as normative.

* Term definition starts with an article, or ends with a period.

* Title intro or title part appears in only one of French or English.

== Approach
=== Document model

The document model ("ISO XML") intends to introduce rigour into the ISO
standards authoring process; the existing 
https://www.iso.org/iso-templates.html[Microsoft Word template from ISO]
do not support such rigour down to the element level.

The ISO International Standard format is prescribed in
http://www.iec.ch/members_experts/refdocs/iec/isoiecdir-2%7Bed7.0%7Den.pdf[ISO/IEC DIR 2 "Principles and rules for the structure and drafting of ISO and IEC documents"],
to a level amenable to an explicit document model. A formal document
model would allow checking for consistency in format and content, and expedite
authoring and quality control of ISO standards.

The document model ("ISO XML") is under development, but it already contains
all the markup needed to render the
https://www.iso.org/publication/PUB100407.html["Rice document"], the ISO's
model document of an international standard, and all the structures described
in ISO/IEC DIR 2. It is expressed as a
link:lib/asciidoctor/iso/validate.rnc[Relax NG Compact schema]; actual
validation occurs against its link:lib/asciidoctor/iso/validate.rng[full Relax
NG counterpart]. A UML representation of the document model is given below.
Note that the document model is currently still in the exploratory phase, and
will likely be changing significantly.

WARNING: The current RNG model of ISO XML is out of sync with the UML.

=== Asciidoctor

Asciidoctor has been selected as the authoring tool to generate the document
model representation of ISO standards. It is a document formatting tool like
Markdown and DocBook, which combines the relative ease of use of the former
(using relatively lightweight markup), and the rigour and expressively of the
latter (it has a well-defined syntax, and was in fact initially developed as a
DocBook document authoring tool). Asciidoctor has built-in capability to output
Text, DocBook and HTML; so it can be used to preview the file as it is being
authored.

Note that in order to generate HTML preview output close to what is intended
in the ISO standard, the Asciidoc
document includes a fair amount of formatting instructions (e.g. disabling
section numbering where appropriate, the titling of Appendixes as Annexes), as
well as ISO boilerplate text, and predefined section headers (sections are
recognised by fixed titles such as `Normative References`). Authoring ISO
standards in this fashion assumes that users will be populating an Asciidoc
template, and not removing needed formatting instructions.

=== Asciidoctor model additions

==== Paragraph alignment

Alignment is defined as an attribute for paragraphs:

[source,asciidoctor]
--
[align=left]
This paragraph is aligned left

[align=right]
This paragraph is aligned right

[align=center]
This paragraph is aligned center

[align=justified]
This paragraph is justified, which is the default
--

==== Dates on reviewer notes

Reviewer notes are encoded as sidebars. A date attribute (in ISO 8601 format)
and a reviewer attribute (naming the reviewer) 
are mandatory for reviewer notes; supplying the time as well as the date
is optional.

[source,asciidoctor]
--
[reviewer="Nick Nicholas",date=20180125T0121]
****
I do not agree with this statement.
****
--

==== Strikethrough and Small Caps

The following formatting macros are used for strikethrough and small caps text:

[source,asciidoctor]
--
[strike]#strike through text#
[smallcap]#small caps text#
--

==== Count of table header and footer rows

In Asciidoc, a table can have at most one header row or footer row. In ISO,
a nominal single header row is routinely broken up into multiple rows in order
to accommodate units or symbols, that line up against each other, though
they are displayed as merged cells with no grid between them. To address this,
tables can be marked up with an optional `headerrows` attribute:

[source,asciidoctor]
--
[headerrows=2]
|===
.2+|Defect 4+^| Maximum permissible mass fraction of defects in husked rice +
stem:[w_max]
| in husked rice | in milled rice (non-glutinous) | in husked parboiled rice | in milled parboiled rice

| Extraneous matter: organic footnote:[Organic extraneous matter includes foreign seeds, husks, bran, parts of straw, etc.] | 1,0 | 0,5 | 1,0 | 0,5
|===
--

=== Features not visible in HTML preview

The gem uses built-in Asciidoc formatting as much as possible, so that users
can retain the ability to preview documents; for _Terms and Definitions_
clauses, which have a good deal of explicit structure, macros have been
introduced for semantic markup (admitted terms, deprecated terms, etc). 

The default HTML output of an Asciidoc-formatted ISO document is quite close to the
intended final output, with the following exceptions, and with the additional
exceptions listed above as markup introduced for ISO markup. Note that the final
outputs of the conversion (Microsoft Word, PDF, HTML) do not have these exceptions,
and comply with the ISO Standard specifications.

* _Terms and Definitions_: each term is marked up as an unnumbered subclause,
the semantic markup of alternate and other terms is not rendered visually.

* _Formulas_: Asciidoctor has no provision for the automated numbering of
isolated block formulas ("stem"), and does not display the number assigned a
block formula in its default HTML processor—although it does provide automated
numbering of examples. Formula numbering is provided in the final outputs
of the conversion.

* _Missing elements_: The document model does not yet include Asciidoc elements
that do not appear to be relevant to ISO Standards; these will be ignored in
generating ISO XML. Those elements include:
** sidebars (`aside`) (as distinct from warnings),
** ASCII art/preformatted text (`literal`) (as distinct from sourcecode listings),
** page breaks (`thematic break`).

* _Markup_: Some connecting text which is used to convey markup structure is
left out: in particular, `DEPRECATED` and `SOURCE` (replaced by formatting
macros).

* _Tables_: Table footnotes are treated like all other footnotes: they are
rendered at the bottom of the document, rather than the bottom of the table,
and they are not numbered separately.

* _Cross-references_: Footnoted cross-references are indicated with the reference
text `fn` in isolation, or `fn:` as a prefix to the reference text. The default
HTML processor leaves these as is: if no reference text is given, only `fn`
will be displayed (though it will still hyperlink to the right reference).

* _References_: The convention for references is that ISO documents are cited
without brackets by ISO number, and optionally year, whether they are normative
or in the bibliography (e.g. `ISO 20483:2013`); while all other references are
cited by bracketed number in the bibliography (e.g. `[1]`). The default HTML
processor treats all references the same, and will bracket them (e.g. `[ISO
20483:2013]`). For the same reason, ISO references listed in the bibliography
will be listed under an ISO reference, rather than a bracketed number.

* _References_: References are rendered cited throughout, since they are
automated. For that reason, if reference is to be made to both an undated and a
dated version of an ISO reference, these need to be explicitly listed as
separate references. (This is not done in the Rice model document, which lists
ISO 6646, but under _Terms and Definitions_ cites the dated ISO 6646:2011.

* _References_: ISO references that are undated but published have their date
indicated under the ISO standards format in an explanatory footnote. Because of
constraints introduced by Asciidoctor, that explanation is instead given in
square brackets in Asciidoc format.

* _Annexes_: Subheadings cannot preserve subsection numbering, while also
appearing inline with their text (e.g. Rice document, Annex B.2): they appear
as headings in separate lines.

* _Annexes_: Cross-references to Annex subclauses are automatically prefixed
with `Clause` rather than `Annex` or nothing.

* _Metadata_: Document metadata such as document numbers, technical committees
and title wording are not rendered in the default HTML output.

* _Patent Notice_: Patent notices are treated and rendered as a subsection of
the introduction, with an explicit subheading.

* _Numbering_: The numbering of figures and tables is sequential in the default
HTML processor: it does not include the Clause or Annex number. This,
_Figure 1_, not _Figure A.1_.

* _Notes_: There is no automatic note numbering by the default HTML processor.

* _Review Notes_: The reviewer on the review note is not displayed.

* _Keys_: Keys to formulas and figures are expected to be marked up as
definition lists consistently, rather than as inline prose.

* _Figures_: Simple figures are marked up as images, figures containing
subfigures as examples. Numbering by the default HTML processor may be
inconsistent. Subfigures are automatically numbered as independent figures.

* _Markup_: The default HTML processor does not support CSS extensions such as
small caps or strike through, though these can be marked up as CSS classes
through custom macros in Asciidoctor: a custom CSS stylesheet will be needed to
render them.


== Document Attributes

The gem relies on Asciidoctor document attributes to provide necessary
metadata about the document. These include:

`:docnumber:`:: The ISO document number (mandatory)

`:tc-docnumber:`:: The document number assigned by the Technical committee

`:partnumber:`:: The ISO document part number

`:edition:`:: The document edition

`:revdate:`:: The date the document was last updated

`:copyright-year:`:: The year which will be claimed as when the copyright for
the document was issued

`:title-intro-en:`:: The introductory component of the English title of the
document

`:title-main-en:`:: The main component of the English title of the document
(mandatory). (The first line of the AsciiDoc document, which contains the title
introduced with `=`, is ignored)

`:title-part-en:`:: The English title of the document part

`:title-intro-fr:`:: The introductory component of the French title of the
document. (This document template presupposes authoring in English; a different
template will be needed for French, including French titles of document
components such as annexes.)

`:title-main-fr:`:: The main component of the French title of the document
(mandatory). 

`:title-part-fr:`:: The French title of the document part

`:doctype:`:: The document type (see
https://www.iso.org/deliverables-all.html[ISO deliverables: The different types of ISO publications]
) (mandatory). The permitted types are:
`international-standard, technical-specification, technical-report,
publicly-available-specification, international-workshop-agreement, guide`.

`:docstage:`:: The stage code for the document status (see
https://www.iso.org/stage-codes.html[International harmonized stage codes])

`:docsubstage:`:: The substage code for the document status (see
https://www.iso.org/stage-codes.html[International harmonized stage codes])

`:secretariat:`:: The national body acting as the secretariat for the document
in the deafting stage

`:technical-committee-number:`:: The number of the relevant ISO technical
committee

`:technical-committee:`:: The name of the relevant ISO technical committee
(mandatory)

`:subcommittee-number:`:: The number of the relevant ISO subcommittee

`:subcommittee:`:: The name of the relevant ISO subcommittee

`:workgroup-number:`:: The number of the relevant ISO workgroup

`:workgroup:`:: The name of the relevant ISO workgroup

`:language:` :: The language of the document (`en` or `fr`)  (mandatory)


The attribute `:draft:`, if present, includes review notes in the XML output;
these are otherwise suppressed.


== Data Models

The IsoDoc data model (IsoStandardDocument) is instantiated from the
https://github.com/riboseinc/isodoc-models[StandardDocument model]. For details
please visit that page.


== Examples

The gem has been tested to date against the
https://www.iso.org/publication/PUB100407.html["Rice document"], the ISO's
model document of an international standard. This repository includes:

* the link:spec/examples/rice.adoc[AsciiISO version of the Rice document].
* the link:spec/examples/rice.html[AsciiISO rendering of the Rice document as an HTML preview] 
(native Asciidoc rendering)
* the link:spec/examples/rice.xml[ISO XML rendering of the Rice document].
* the link:spec/examples/rice.doc[Word .doc rendering of the Rice document] (Work in progress).
